Template for issues (#159)
GIScience/ohsome-api: .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md

---
name: Feature request
about: Suggest an enhancement to the ohsome API.
title: ''

> labels: 'feature request'

Reviewer: currently, we don't have such a [label](https://github.com/GIScience/ohsome-api/labels). I think `enhancement` would be used?!

```suggestion
labels: 'enhancement'
```

Author: `enhancement` is also ok since the description of the `enhancement` label says `New feature or request`

Author: > AFAIK, only collaborators can edit the labels of an issue (except for the pre-assigned basic "issue type" label from the respective template, e.g., `bug`). Therefore, I would suggest to drop the sections requesting the addition of labels.

Having the possibility to set the priority was a request by @SlowMo24, since we use labels I thought just to draw attention to the use of the labels. No problem about deleting this part. @SlowMo24 what do you think?

Author: Same for the bug report

Reviewer 2: I'm fine with anything but having some sort of 'how urgent' information given by the user **may** be of value. Just to see the difference between 'I need this for my research tomorrow' and 'That would also be great, but I wont use it til next year and there is a workaround'. It should though be clear that we have our own prioritisation and obey noone ;-)

assignees: ''

---

> ### Problem Description
> Please add a clear and concise description of what the problem is, e.g. "I'm always frustrated when..., because..."

Reviewer: I don't like the negative connotation in this section too much. Most of the time feature requests are not about problems (that's what a bug report is for), but instead focus on potential improvements. 

For feature request, users often forget to state their intention/rationale behind suggested ideas. This makes it often hard to evaluate feature requests objectively. I would prompt the user to try to formulate their suggestion as a user story, perhaps like this:

```suggestion
### Feature Description
Please add a clear and concise description of what your idea is, what use cases it solves. You could try to formulate it as a user story using the following template: _“As a … I would like to … so that …”_ (e.g., _“As a researcher I would like to request the daily number of OSM changesets touching particular map features in a given area in order to analyse trends in mapping activity.”_).
```

Author: I don't like to put user story models here. I think the mentioned example protracts too much the description and it isn't very useful for the users, since most of the features requested here are small and specific enhancements.

Reviewer: ok, user-story style might be overkill, fair enough. But my point was that the current wording isn't about _enhancements_ at all. It reads more like a bug report, talking about _problems_ and _frustration_.

Can you come up with a better wording which is tailored towards _small and specific enhancements_?

> ### Expected Solution
> Describe the solution you'd like
> 
> ### Alternative Solutions
> Describe alternatives you've considered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Expected Solution
Describe the solution you would like to see.

### Alternative Solutions
Describe alternatives you have considered.
```

> ### Request Description
> Add a clear description about the enhancement. Please be specific about the features you would like to have.
> 
> ### Additional Information
> Add any other information, examples, screenshots, etc. about the feature request here.

Reviewer: to address https://github.com/GIScience/ohsome-api/pull/159#discussion_r608502509, let's perhaps write it like this:

```suggestion
### Request Description
Add a clear description about the enhancement. Please be specific about the feature you would like to have.

### Additional Information
Add any other information, examples, screenshots, possible workarounds, etc. about the feature request here. You may indicate here how important the enhacement is for your use case and whether or not you would be willing to support the development (from coding a pull request, to helping as a beta tester).
```

?

Author: That is fine, but I think the last part "and whether or not..." it doesn't add any important information since we code by ourselves. If we need for some help (e.g. a beta tester) we can just ask him/her.

Reviewer: Well, it's an open source project after all. So it could be the case that at some point someone external might want to contribute. :)
Or, for example, if let's say that @SlowMo24 really needs a certain feature very urgently ( :wink: ), it could speed up some thinks if we know that we can count on active support.

Or if a feature request comes from a team member, but who has not time/skill/… to implement a certain feature, it would also be good to know, IMO.

Author: I see the point, just I don't think the text adds really value. But I have no problem with adding this text.;-)
